# Data Lake Project

### Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, wants to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

they want to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

### Project Description

To complete this project, will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3.

### Project Datasets

we'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

> Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

> Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

- Song Dataset
  The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.
  
    The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to one file in this dataset.

> song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

>{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

- Log Dataset
  The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

    The log files in the dataset we'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to one file in this dataset.

> log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json

### Schema Design

For Song Play Analysis, Using the song and log datasets, we'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

#### 1. Fact Table:
        1. songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
            (songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent)
            
#### 2. Dimension Tables:
        1. users - users in the app
            (user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level)
        2. songs - songs in music database
            (song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration)
        3. artists - artists in music database
            (artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude)
        4. time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
            (start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday)
            
### Project Template

The project template includes two files:

    1. etl.py reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3
    2. README.md provides discussion on your process and decisions
